=pod

=head1 NAME

pickaxe - the redmine wiki editor

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    pickaxe https://example.com/projects/example/

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Pickaxe is a ncurses based programm to view and edit redmine wiki
pages.

When you start pickaxe your are prompted for your username and passwort
if those are not set in the configuration file. The index is the
first screen you see. It is a list of alle wiki pages in your current
project. You can use I<Return> to view a wiki page in the pager screen.

To edit a page, press the e key while in the index or pager screen. This
will open the page in an editor, where you can make changes to the page
text.

You can also search for pages by pressing the s key while in the index
screen. This will prompt you for a search term. Type in the term you
want to search for, and pickaxe will display a list of all pages that
match the search term.

In pickaxe, you can press the c key while in the index screen to enter
the project switcher. This will display a list of all the projects you
have access to. You can use the arrow keys to navigate the list, press
Enter to select a project, or press q to cancel and return to the index
screen.

After selecting a project, the index screen will display the list of
wiki pages for that project. From there, you can use the same navigation
and editing commands as described earlier.

To exit pickaxe, press the q key while in the index screen. This will
bring you back to the command prompt.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

When pickaxe is first invoked, it will attempt to read its configuration
file at I<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/pickaxe/pickaxe.conf>

An configuration file consists of a series of commands. The only
valid commands are set and bind. The I<set> command is used to change
configuration variables, while I<bind> allows the user to change the
default key bindings. 

=head2 Changing keybindings

The bind command is used to change the default key bindings. The syntax
for the bind command is as follows:

    bind map key function

=over 4

=item I<map>

This is the name of the keymap that the user wishes to modify. pickaxe
has these keymaps: pager, index, links, attachments and projects.

=item I<key>

This is the key or key combination that the user wants to bind to the
specified function.

=item I<function>

This is the name of the function that the user wants to bind to the
specified key or key combination. See FUNCTIONS for a list of available
functions.

=back

For example, to bind the next_line function to the j key in the index
keymap, the following command can be used:

    bind index j next_line

With this binding, whenever the j key is pressed while in the index, the
next_line function will be executed.

=head2 Setting variables

The set command is used to changed configuration variables. It takes the
variable name and its new value as arguments. For example:

    set pass_cmd pass mdom@example.org

The following variables are valid:

=over 4

=item pass_cmd

Command to get the users password. It should return the
password on stdout on a sinlge line.  There is no default.

=item yank_cmd

Command to copy the url of the current wiki page to the
clipboard. Defaults to I<xclip>.

=item username

Specifies the username for you redmine account. If this and
I<REDMINE_APIKEY> are no set pickaxe will prompt you for your
username. There is no default.

=item password

Specifies the passwort for you redmine account. If this and
I<REDMINE_APIKEY> are no set pickaxe will prompt you for your
password. There is no default.

=item base_url

Specifies the base url of the redmine project you want to edit.

=item index_time_format.

The I<strftime> format used in the index display. The default is
'%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S'.

=item index_format

This variable allows you to customize the index display. It uses format
strings similar to the C function I<printf(3)> to format output. The
default is '%4n %-22u %t'.

The following sequences are defined:

=over 4

=item %n

Current page number.

=item %u

The date the page was last updated, formatted with I<strftime> and the format
defined in I<index_time_format>.

=item %c

The date the page was created, formatted with I<strftime> and the format
defined in I<index_time_format>.

=item %t

The page title.

=item %v

The page version number.

=back

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item view_attachments

This function allows the user to view any attachments that are
associated with the current wiki page.

To use this function, press the v key while viewing the desired wiki
page. A list of all attachments associated with the page will be
displayed, along with the filename, size, and mime type for each
attachment.

Note: This function requires that the current wiki page has one or
more attachments associated with it. If there are no attachments, this
function will do nothing.

=item yank_url

This function copies the URL for the current wiki page to the
clipboard. This allows the user to easily share the URL with others or
paste it into other applications.

Note: This function requires that the user has installed the xclip
command or configure the configuration variable I<yank_cmd> to use their
clipboard manager.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item REDMINE_APIKEY

This variable has to be set in order to access the redmine api. You can
access it by clicking on your account on your redmine wiki and search
for api key in the right margin.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2022 Mario Domgoergen C<< <mario@domgoergen.com> >>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

